Okay, guys, I'm so excited about this. Let me start recording.
So, Neil is literally on his plane right now coming back from Chicago to the bay. So he'll be like live and in camera in about 5 ish minutes as soon as.
I just landed.
Oh, perfect. So as soon as he, he'll be on, but We've done the session a bunch of times.
So. A lot of you have asked about demo day and a lot of people usually ask about demo day like coming off of mentor madness.
So that's why we always do this session right after the mid program meetup to just set the stage to let you guys know what's going on, what to expect, answer all of your questions, and then I have picked out some key examples.
Like I think about you guys and your companies and what you guys are gonna be looking at presenting b 2 BB 2 c, different kinds of companies, different goals for demo day.
And I pick out some of the key examples I think would help you. So. The last like 45 min of today is going to be spent doing going through examples and kind of discussing.
But before that, let me pull up my deck.
Oh, right.
And everybody see this? Again. Okay, cool. So demo that.
The first thing is the preface and the expectations for demo day. So we're gonna talk about like what demo date is, what demo day isn't the history of demo day and what you can expect from this demo day.
So this is gonna be, if I did. Yes, probably our eighth demo day since we've done some combined ones maybe our ninth since this is our tenth and eleventh program, so demo day used to be this giant giant giant event because think back to the start of tech stars.
We were one of the only accelerator programs in the whole nation. This was a new concept. So you know you had a couple other accelerators that came up at the time but for tech stars there were just 10 companies 10 companies at once a year in Boulder this is the giant event everybody would fly from the country to go there, glitz and glam, bell of the ball style.
But then we expanded. So then we started having Boston, we had Seattle. Chicago and then we had started having more and more demo days.
So over time once we got to about 2020 D, evolved into rather than just being this like one-time giant event you have to be there into rather a springboard or like I think of it as like a cotillion we're presenting you into society and now like these are the startups that have tech stars like best blessing and go meet them.
Go meet them, help them achieve their goals. It is this giant springboard pointing you guys out there getting you known and you are now entering like startup world as like oh these guys are a big deal.
Gotta keep your eye on them. So that's how we like put demo day into perspective for how it happens now in 2024.
People don't generally fly across the country to see demo days since demo days are happening from all sorts of accelerators like every month there's a demo day not just with tech stars but everybody.
However, the best thing that we can talk about for demo day today is how to help each of you achieve your individual goals.
That will help you set. Because one thing we've learned is how to help each of our companies do that.
Yeah, Neil.
I'm coming through, I would also add that there's 2 other things there. There's the artifact that they get as the outcome of Timo Day itself that they can leverage.
And then there's also the people that they can bring to the event itself that could make a huge difference.
100%. So what Neil is referring to one the artifact. So I'll get into why this is not a streamed event later, but just know.
It's not streamed, it's recorded, and it's professionally recorded. So we get a really high end videographer.
They make these artifacts, which is a six-minute video for just your company with intro music and your logo and everything and you get that as a moment in time that you can then use.
You can send it to investors, potential customers, put it on LinkedIn, all these different things, and it creates hype and it gives you guys the opportunity to use this after the event itself.
So it's not just one moment. You've used this artifact again and again. And it becomes something very useful to have for your company.
The second thing you said, now was, oh, you guys inviting people. So what's really important is we have a long list of hundreds of people we will invite.
This is community members. This is the partners. Our potential investors in our investor network mentors that can help you or maybe be advisors.
Lots and lots of different people who we've connected with in the bank. But we also give you guys the opportunity to create invite lists.
And this should be tailored to what your goal is. So everybody will have their own goal for demo day.
I'll get into that in a little bit, but it could be getting a new customer, maybe your b 2 b, you wanna invite your customers here, which we've seen happen and it works.
See, and it worked.
There we go. Which we've seen happen and it works. It could be investors that you want to start having those warm conversations that you want to start having those warm conversations that you want to start having those warm conversations with. You want to bring them in, get them interested in you.
It could be potential advisors or key strategic mentors that you want to be a part of your, company. And maybe they're more high profile.
So you want them to come and see all the hype around your company. Lots and lots of different things like that.
Maybe your b 2 c and you just want all the people in the audience to download your app, which is something we've had people do as well.
So whatever your individual goal is will help you achieve it and you can craft your invite list around that.
So I like to say this, a lot of people. A couple of programs ago, we're talking about, oh, I'm gonna win demo day, which I'd never heard people say before, and I corrected them.
And I was like, winning demo day is not a competition between each of you. Like there's not a winner of demo day.
The people who win demo day are the people. To gain an adequate amount of follow-up meetings that help them work toward their goal.
So I always like look at the people around in the networking hour. After they've done their pitch and video and Q&A and I see who is making these meaningful connections, who is getting these people to scan their Calendly link and sign up for these follow-ups and who whose follow-ups from that are helping them achieve their goal, whether that's investors, customers, whatever it is.
A lot of people are looking for partners or partnerships at these events as well. So winning demo day is getting the most amount of follow up meetings that help you move the rock move the needle toward your goal.
I also want to start because I'm sure a lot of you are wondering about the venue, so I'm already gonna get that out of the way before I start talking about the format.
So the venue that we've decided is block 15 in Oakland. This is a super cool venue.
Here's some pictures. I really like it. I'm extremely excited. It's actually an art gallery and all of the cool events in Oakland happen here.
So JP Morgan who they Nicole and Musa both live in Oakland. They put us onto this and then Max and I went and visited it last week while we were in the Bay with you guys and it was awesome.
So we're gonna have food, drinks, it'll be great. You guys will be able to pitch on stage in this upper left and will project and the lighting is awesome.
It's just gonna be a good time. So you can look up pictures there if you want to be familiar with this space.
We're looking at like a pretty Good. Size. So around like 303 50 is what you can expect.
Our Chicago demo days are like 202 50. But we know that a lot more people will come in the base.
So like, 300 is what you can expect. And then with that, I'll get into our secret sauce, demo day format.
Is there a question in the chat?
Okay, cool. Thanks, JT. So I call this our secret sauce because we came up with this after COVID and now Techsires, Austin, Techsires, anywhere, Texas, Sydney, in Australia, Texas, Twin Cities in Minneapolis.
Seattle.
Those are just the people I know of. They've all adopted. Seattle. Okay, cool.
So all those people have adopted this format. So the history here is Neil and my first program with Brad was Put virtually because of 2020 so we had to run virtual demo day the traditional tech stars demo day is a 10 min pitch with slides per company. That's it.
So that you go up, you pitch your company for 10 min solo just the CEO you have your slides and then you sit down.
We did that virtually. So we gave everybody 10 min video recording with their slides, and we sent it out.
And what we noticed was even before COVID, people had started not coming to demo days. They had kind of become unenammered.
With the idea of sitting through these 10 min pitches and we've noticed that on the data on our virtual demo days.
So we noticed that like people would listen to 2 or 3 min of the pitch and then just start skipping.
Okay. Which is not great because our founders took a long time to craft those and there was a lot of really good information.
So we noticed like when we go back live so in 2021 we got the go ahead. To start planning for 2022 when we could have our first in person demo day we thought what can we change you know maybe this isn't the best format to go about it.
Times have changed. People are more saturated. Times have changed. People are more saturated.
They're hearing pitches all the time. How can we make it engaging to the audience all the time? How can we make it engaging to the audience?
Because at the end of the day, that's what matters for you guys. You could have a great time pitching on stage.
Maybe you love giving long pitches, but if no one listening you're not going to achieve your goal.
So that's our like highest priority for you guys. So. We thought about it.
We also asked what what the job of demo day was. Like what's the GTV of demo?
Do you want to elaborate now?
Yeah.
Yeah, well, you said the follow up meetings, right? I think that sets you up to talk about the format next.
So we experimented with this the last, now it's like 6 programs and it has been an extreme success.
So before I show you the format, all of the people that come we have very few trickle out in the middle of the event, which used to be a major problem for tech stars demo days.
And we have people extremely engaged throughout each pitch. Like I watch them and I see them. Everyone's listening to all of it.
They're extremely excited to talk to the companies afterward rather than just being tired of people joining on for 10 min each.
It is a hard to sit through all of that. So what we do instead is make it a lot more engaging.
So here's Neal, at D. One of our Chicago demo days.
Oh, no, before I share the format, do you wanna talk about how it's like why it's not a fundraising event and why it's rather the springboard to fundraising?
Come back to this in like 3 min.
Okay, we'll come back to that. So our format is to arm you. Rather than just like pitching on stage and then hopefully people just come up to you and offer you money that just doesn't happen.
So what does happen is our companies get checks, but they get checks after a couple of meetings post MO day.
And the reason for that is because our demo day. Acts as the first meeting with the investor.
So very similarly to how Troy explains like sending a data room will like get rid of a lot of the preconceived notions they have about your business and help you get cut through the noise.
Our demo day allows you like I say here to have confidence clarity and real skills by articulating your business by answering questions on stage.
So it will serve as the first meeting to get through any sort of hesitations for why people would not want to meet with you.
We have you answer the hard questions. And after people see that, they want to have these meetings with you and it's on an expedited track because they already have heard all of this stuff.
They've heard about your traction. They've heard about the assumptions that you're making on your business and why certain problems are not problems and why you're really ready to scale to be a billion dollar business.
This has worked immaculately in comparison to the 10 min single pitch. Because people left those pitches having so many questions that weren't answered.
Because a lot of people make it sunshine and rainbows and their pitches. I'm sure you guys have seen a bunch of pitches on stage before.
Instead we hit the hard truth. So what are people wondering after seeing your 1 min pitch? What do you think that they're gonna ask about?
And then you just hit the nail on the head and answer it with a pre prepared response that we craft be like perfectly crispy and concise.
So the format is 1 1 min product video. 1 min elevator pitch on the mic. With no sides and 4 min of Q&A with an EIR with one slide displayed to enhance their responses in your Q&A.
One caveat here is that you choose the order of these 2. So most people do pitch first. There are some reasons why you would want to do product video first.
For example, We had a company. Called, Halon technologies. They're making batteries for drones and it's just way easier to get people on board and to visualize what they're talking about by showing the product video first.
Then he gets on stage and explains the rest. So if that's something that you feel like would make sense for your product, we can talk about it, but just most people do pitch first.
4 min of Q&A. The EIRs hand pick you guys kickball style during the last month.
So once they've met with each of you once you do your final rotation, that, first or second week of the final rotation, the ERs pick you and then you'll have about 2 or 3 weeks to work with them and craft your Q&A, but will already be crafting your questions before you have your EIR assigned.
The purpose of that is that each ER is extremely invested emotionally in your company because they chose to be representing you on stage.
They'll come up, it'll be like fireside style where it's like 2 chairs, a little table in between.
And you're just chatting like you're on a talk show. I always say it's like Oprah.
So people do not know that it's pre prepared. If the ERs do a good job, which these ERs do an amazing job on stage, they've almost all of them have already been on stage once.
You're playing off of each other. You're riffing. It seems like you're having a conversation.
That's why I say talk show. And even though you know the answers to your questions, for everyone else, it seems like the ER is grilling you on stage.
So I'll show you that in Jake from Zest in his video because Eric Eric Severing house who did your mental health workshop.
He was his EIR and a lot of people came up to us afterward and said, Eric was so harsh with Jake, like he was really grilling him.
Like that was extremely intense. And we're like, yeah, I mean, and Jake handled it so well, but we know in the back of our head like it was prepared.
So it does fool people because people were very concerned about Jake and how Eric grilled him even though they both practice that for like weeks which is really cool.
So we have a lot of practice. Practice sessions designed to help you prepare. Both synchronously and asynchronously.
Here are the slot of them. So in 2 weeks you're going to have intruded demo day prep with Troy and myself.
He's going to introduce the concept of a pitch what a pitch should entail, then you'll have pitch practice with him in 2 weeks after that.
In between that, I run a product demo walkthrough where we go through your storyboards of like ideation phase, what do you want to include and we give each other feedback?
We'll have alumni pitch practice, one of our pitch coaches from Chicago. It's gonna come do pitch tips and tricks, which is always very helpful.
We'll have mentor pitch practice and then we'll have ER Q&A practice sessions.
So it'll start with me and Neil working with you guys in small groups. To develop some of your questions and then the ERs will have individual practice sessions with you.
And then the very last thing, the week before demo day, how we get you completely ready is you'll have these individual 30 min practice sessions with me and Neil, which is where like the nail is like nailed in all the way.
It's sealed. This is our set for demo day. So we'll get you guys all squared away and then the Monday of demo day is when you get approved.
So we'll have approval sessions where you come up and you give your whole demo day set. All 3 parts and Most people get approved.
We've had a couple of people not approved. Which is not great. So if you're not approved.
Only one person has been not approved to actually pitch. Most people hit the 24 h deadline of being not approved by the next day.
You need to have whatever changes we tell you implemented. So by that Tuesday, the reason being if it's not ready by Tuesday, it's not going to make it into the deck because we have to send it to the AV people multiple days before.
So like really, really be aware the week before demo day when you're having these 30 min practice sessions is really your deadline.
Monday is when you're presenting a test to be finalized. I don't want anyone to be not approved on Monday because then it becomes like a mad rush and it's kind of embarrassing.
So Monday before demo day is your deadline. I think it's the 20 seventh. So just have that in your head.
Drop dead. The event will be a mega demo day for all 24 companies. We did this last time and it was an extremely fun event because of this shorter style since it's only 6 min per company it worked really well so we just we provided a lot of food a lot of drinks and it was a really fun event. So we just, we provided a lot of food, a lot of drinks and it was a really fun event.
And then we provided a lot of food, a lot of drinks, and it was a really fun event.
And then we have that 1 h cocktail And that went into like 10 PM. And everyone stayed like we had some worries it was a hypothesis oh is like 5 to 10 kinda gonna be like too long and it ended up being so fun.
So the actual event ended at like 8 30 and then we had an hour and a half or so of networking and once we cleaned up by 10 we had to start kicking people out.
But amazing conversations were happening like first a lot of the founders we couldn't even get the people to like stop talking to them even though we had to close down the venue so it was a full house.
Yeah, Sophie.
Let me.
Well, real quick, sorry, just wanted to clarify. Do, okay, I'm gonna, I'll type it. I'll type it.
Oh, No, we can't really. You sound Okay.
Liliana, do you mind going to the last slide? Yeah, the, Lisa, just confirming your question or answering it.
Are the prep sessions the week before? And all the prep sessions with you or those in person.
And Leon, you're on mute also.
Yeah, so we might sound cut out. No, I think your sound was fine actually. I think it was on my end.
Sophie, can you say it again?
Yeah, are the prep sessions, which of these sessions on the slide are in person versus virtual?
It's a great question. So everything is virtual until we get to our in person week. So nothing on this slide is gonna be in person.
The first in person thing will be when we're back in person. The first in person thing will be when we're back in person, the week of demo day, which is that we're back in person the week of demo day, which is that Monday approval session.
And I may have another question in the chat, which is, is there a deadline for the presentation in the video?
All of it is Monday, the Monday of demo day.
None of the stuff on this slide is in person because then we would have to wait until the last week because we won't see each other again until the last week.
So all of this prep happens virtually before we get there. And then when we get there, you're ready to go and we approve you.
So, Ali, we have the ER select you guys, like I said, kickball style.
So like they're choosing the people that mean the most to them or that they connect the most with.
So we do that privately. About like 3 weeks before demo day.
Lisa says. The preposition, the week before, and that final Monday. So the week before.
We're not in person Lisa so those 30 min ones are virtual as well. And then everybody has the Same deadline, which is Monday for presentation video and pitch Neil, do you wanna elaborate on what you put in the chat?
I think your sound was fine actually. It was just my speaker.
Yeah, yeah, sure. So what we're saying is basically It's not a guarantee that you could present a demo that you have to do your part to show up.
Be prepared and have your act together. If you don't have the pitch organized and in on time, if you don't have your video dialed in, if you're not on the same page with the EI or about Q&A's.
You won't pitch. We won't approve it. And we're dead serious. We very rarely had that problem but It's important.
Expectation to set. I don't want any founder of ours to think that they deserve to be on stage regardless of their level of preparedness and our approval of it.
And you guys can guess the reason for that, right? Because if one of you guys seems extremely unprepared, it's going to reflect poorly on the rest of you.
We want this to be an extremely professional event with extremely, Interesting and high performing companies who like have their whole set as a very impressive format.
So if one of you isn't like that, we wouldn't want the rest to suffer. So that's the reason in the past we've chosen to have someone sit out.
Marcel asks, would you guys look at the product videos beforehand for feedback? I'm assuming yes, but just check in.
Yep. So we have the product demo walk through which is my session I made to help you guys just have like a checkpoint where it's like let's start talking about the storyboard.
After that it usually happens asynchronously. It's like, let's start talking about the storyboard. After that, it usually happens asynchronously.
So people, it usually happens asynchronously. So people will start having their videos ready. At different points.
A lot of people won't have it ready for a while because they hire people to help. Other people do it themselves and it's ready like 2 weeks after that walkthrough.
So you guys can just post it on base camp. Send us a box, you're like, hey, can you check this out?
And then we'll give you feedback constantly. So think of it as like an open feedback loop, iterative, constantly asynchronously be a base camp.
You can also send videos or boxers of your pitch as you iterate that in between sessions with Troy and the alumni, we can give you feedback there as well.
So even though like we won't meet with you meet with you individually until the week before we expect to be giving you feedback the whole time. That's what always happens.
Our team is also on all of these pitch practices and stuff and so we're giving you feedback along the way as well.
Any other questions here before we move on?
Just one quick one. For the product. Demo just do you guys normally have your founders like produce those in house?
Or like resources that we could use to kind of make those look really great just wondering how that's normally dealt with.
Good question. So we prescribed the scrapier the better. Like not dumping a bunch of money into these.
I've had people like literally use $0. They had like their wife for record it and as like the narrator and they made it on Canva.
It's not a joke. I'm gonna show it to you. I've had people mostly people pay like 2 50 to 500 to get like a few assets.
That they need and otherwise they're just making it. Some people blow the budget and spend like a thousand to 2,000.
I do not recommend that because unless it's something extremely video heavy where like that is the whole point for example we had a muralist company in the last cohort they really needed to display the murals in their video or else it wasn't going to get across so they had to pay someone to get the drone footage.
Okay. Very rare cases like that. You would need to pay. I do not think you guys need to be shelling out cash for this.
As for resources, we don't provide the. But a lot of you already have ideas or people that you would use share those.
That's what usually happens in the class. It's like, hey, I have this great resource.
What I'm using if anyone else wants to. Well, we'll do Neil and then Antonio.
One thing to clarify there, the only exception I would speak to with that is if the team or the founder of the company.
Is investing in a product video for other purposes. So for example, if you're gonna put on your website or if there's some other sort of sales strategy that you have it play in your need.
Of an artifact like that to help you. And to help drive interest in some way, shape, or form.
There's a justification that you can. Kind of, you know, bring to the table. That would support you, but that assumes you actually have a product that is real and ready.
So. You don't want a vapor where product or I mean, there's an argument for a Kickstarter style campaign product as well, but.
I can only think of a couple people who might be in that position. In this class.
Yeah, that's a great point. Some people do invest a lot of money and then put it on their website.
Or something like that. Before I answer the other questions, this might help. Some people, a lot of people do not show their product in the product demo.
Rather, they briefly overview the product and spend the majority of the minute with a customer testimonial.
That is extremely helpful. So if you feel like you do not need to explain all the intricacies of your product, include customers, include how it's changed their life.
I will show you multiple examples of that today, but those are my favorite of the product videos because there's 1 thing to show like this is our product.
You click here, this is how it works. And there's another to show the outcome. Think jobs to be done and W 3.
What is the outcome? What is the success we're getting for our customer through this product? So showing that means 10 times more.
Antonio.
So we're thinking of, doing a quick, demo like during the 1 min pitch on stage the live pitch to showcase the hardware prototype and do like a live demo while I talk.
But we're still unsure whether it's that's supposed to be it or not. Would it would it be a possibility for you guys, from your side or, we should abandon that thought?
It's usually a bad idea because things can go wrong. So I would recommend you have the hardware on you and you can like show it, but you should kind of almost like fake a live demo in that you're demonstrating what it would do.
Whatever you would show on the screen or the video. But I would recommend you not rely on. A live effective performance because things go wrong and then all of a sudden that was your one shot.
Yeah. Okay, thank you.
You're also not gonna have anything behind you during the pitch, Antonio. So I would just put it in the video and like you said, have the hardware so you can show it, talk about it, but any sort of showing on the screen will happen during the video only.
I see. Got it. Thank you.
Yeah.
So I'm wondering about the final video that we get from the videographers. Can we have some input on the music or maybe, I mean, I don't wanna go too crazy, but could they like give us the project files?
Cause I make video professionally, I might be able to, you know, I would love to tweak it.
I don't know.
I think that's like a really easy ask for them. I like I can ask. But for the music, you guys choose the music.
This
So you have walk on music, you guys choose the music. So you have walk on music, like you're in the NBA or I don't know sports that well, but you know, like when you're getting ready to go.
So you'll hear it in these. Founders that I'm going to show you.
Everybody gets to pick like 15 s of whatever clip like hypes them up and then that's what the videographers use at the start of your video clip because That's what you're walking up to.
And we also give them your video asset so they're not filming the video being projected. They just embed it in the actual recording.
Lisa?
Okay, weird question. If, we're potentially, I mean, if we're able to shoot a video that looks like we spend a lot of money.
Without spending a lot of money will that reflect fully on investors thinking we're wasting money or is it just it'll look cool and they'll press people.
Do you know what I mean? This is weird.
I think the latter. I know what you mean. That's a great question. I don't think people scrutinize it that much.
Where, cause they don't know your life, right? Like you guys could have just bested a bunch of your own money in there and like really believe in paid for that.
Yeah, just keep me in. Let's see. Just let me once as soon as you look at all.
So I don't think they're scrutinizing it with how you spend your money. I know we're kind of scared you guys.
Thanks.
Being scrappy is a lot more about like you viewing you rather than like other people judging you and it's about the help of your business internally.
Okay.
So being scrappy like that is great. So like the best you can make it, I do want high fidelity videos.
So like the absolute best you can make it on a low budget is what I would like to see from you guys.
Thank you.
They're like, I'll tell you if it's bad and I'll have you guys redo it.
There was one person that showed it to us and I literally said like this is back. You need to redo it because I didn't want them to embarrass themselves.
I have no doubt.
Pardon? Yes.
Yeah, I do have one guest. I'd like to invite at least for now. Is there a deadline for when we should remit all the guest lists out to you?
The Denline is gonna be like in a long time from now. I'll put it on your to-do list probably next week to start thinking about it.
Okay.
Probably being like week 10. Or maybe we, we wanna give them enough time to get in, but we also don't need to send it out right now.
So you have about 2 or 3 weeks to start thinking about it.
Got it. And where is this located again?
You'll see it in your to-do list when it's due. So like it's not in your to list right now because you don't have to worry about it.
So I'll put it next week for you to start. Thinking about it and then I'll put the place for you to submit it probably the week after.
Got it.
Okay, thank you.
Just so just keep packing your company to do list every week and you'll see it. It will be in the form of a spreadsheet, so you'll give us their name like the company or whatever they're associated with or maybe.
If they're an investor or a mentor, just so we can tag them and then their email. So that's it.
And we'll send out an email on your behalf and from tech stars and say like a company would really like to invite you to demo day.
You know, here's their link and we usually have a higher hit rate of us sending it like that so they get the formal invite but we also encourage you guys once we send out the invite link don't share it on social media but share it specifically with people who you would like to invite.
So just hit them 2 times, right? They'll get it from us. They'll get it from you and then we'll increase the conversion rate.
Perfect. Thank you so much and thanks for people that answered in the chat as well.
Cool. Do we have questions in here?
Cool. Alright, I think. Yeah, so it'll be 3 h followed by 1 h of cocktail.
Start building your investor pipelines now or your invite list. So I say investor pipelines here because a lot of you will want to invite investors but just build your pipelines in general.
Think about what your goal is. Talk to your team if you have a team, decide what it is for you to win demo day.
Is it to get X number of like customers is it to get one big like b 2 b customer get that one partnership to that big brand or is it to get like can follow up, meetings with investors, whatever it is, think about that first and then craft your pipeline backwards.
When I say pipeline, I just mean invite list. When you send that to us, we'll send those invites out within 2 weeks.
Any more questions? Cause I have a bunch of examples to show you guys and Neil, feel free to unmute if you wanted to add anything else before we move forward.
I think just on the whole fundraising piece and how Demo Day is in a fundraising event.
There's a misconception both joining tech stars and demo day itself. That just translates to.
Dollars raise your commitments. Sure, it has happened plenty of times in our programs where an investor at demo day sees a founder and they pitch and they either make them an offer on the spot or very quickly within the next week or 2, an investment or a deal gets done.
That is not something you should expect. But it's not something you should plan for. It's not something that we think is is a product or expected outcome of demo day.
I hope you're super clear about that. If it happens that's great, but by no means is that what anybody should.
Expect will be delivered to them. You could facilitate great opportunities to have. Expedited conversations with investors because you make them aware of what you're doing.
You've been updated and through tech stars through your journey. They show up to demo day or you share the demo day video with them afterwards and it leads you down the path of due diligence that leads you to a commitment or an exciting moment.
But it's not something that Is a is a value prop from tech stars at this stage for any of our programs.
I just wanted to be super duper clear about that
And we say that just to give you the truth of the reality of demo days in 2024, so that you guys can then like set the right expectations and achieve success.
In these alternate ways. So not saying that to kind of pooh anybody who is like excited about it.
It's just the truth. Go ahead.
Yeah, just a question on the invite list. I know you said that, you know, it's good to invite like perspective investors, customers, etc.
What about like family?
Great question. I love that. So you guys will be responsible for friends and family invites. It's unlimited.
A lot of people find it very helpful to have their family and friends come and support them. Pretty much every founder has at least one loved one come and support them.
No, you guys aren't responsible for that though, so that's not gonna be in like the invite list you send us.
I'll just make a separate post once we have the event page and I'll say okay it's time to invite your friends and family.
Right now if like you have friends and family asking you because maybe they're gonna fly in it's May thirtieth.
From 5 to 9 ish like because it'll be like a networking hour at the end so it'll taper off and it's at block 15 in Oakland.
So that's like the save the date if you wanna send to your friends and family now. May thirtieth, 5 pm, block 15.
Otherwise, we'll send like the actual link for them to register so that they have the sign up and all the information a little bit later.
Mitcha.
Yeah, Mark and I were thinking about doing something special in the beginning like I don't know trying to get people to sing together or doing something really you know extravagant is that is that allowed or encouraged or poopooed?
Or
That's interesting. What do you think, Neil?
We let's talk about it. We've had people with these ideas before and I don't know if anything creative.
There was one we had the we had the, the live painting that happened last time, remember?
From low pressure.
They might not know about it, but basically they had spray painting happen.
Yeah, it's my spray painted on stage. So that was the most we've done.
We can talk about it. No promises, but let's like conceptualize something that we think.
To be done in a way that wouldn't disrupt the order of operations. Or any other founder.
Founders experience on stage.
Nice. That sounds amazing. Thank you.
My answer is like. A lot of people have all these exciting ideas now, but like on the day of, I promise you it's gonna be already stressful enough for like the thing that we're trying to do.
I know you're a performer, so you're like, it's no sweat.
But the operations are just like wild. The day of it feels like the day just flies by, but it's almost like doing a wedding where it's just like, it happens in a blink of an eye.
So I like to be very cautious before changing the order of operations. Because we've made it so that it flows and like it works a hundred percent of the time.
So we can talk about it, but just know I'm like extremely cautious about stuff like that.
Totally makes sense. Thank you
Cool. So this is my favorite part because I have lots of examples for you guys.
Do you have questions in the chat? Nowson says, I'm starting to get inbound interest from investors.
One asked me if I was actively fundraising. I said no. I'm working on a product and we'll start fundraising post demo day.
Any advice around this? Should I take meetings or push them out? Nelson, the best time to raise is when you don't need to raise.
So it's awesome that you're saying no. I promise you that's making them even more excited.
And for most of you, the best thing to say is that your launching your rays or kicking off your rays at demo day.
So like not starting prematurely. It's very helpful. That makes this a huge slash.
You'll get a lot of interest. Yeah.
Oh, we do. That, that example is exactly what Nelson just said is exactly why we do this format.
Because the whole notion here is that if they see your demo day That first conversation is already done and you didn't even meet with them yet.
So what Merritt taught me, which I think is really smart. Is he would kind of stack a bunch of investor conversations and meetings.
Host Demo Day. So he had all his founders when he was in EIR schedule their meetings one to 2 weeks after demo day.
As it means to like basically say, let me finish my progress with that. Let's have you check out, a day, either make it or I'll send you the, you know, video afterwards.
And then let's meet after that. So it's and it's also a great way to invite people who you know won't come to demo day.
But if it gives you a reason to contact them and reach out and if they can't make demo day, you're like, hey, well, that's okay.
Let me just meet with you anyway and tell you what's going on, you know, so it's a way to almost instigate a series of meetings with people who otherwise wouldn't have a reason to reach out to or talk to.
Perfect. Okay, so we'll take more questions, but let's get into some of the examples.
So we're gonna start with Jake. Jake is B to C. We're gonna watch the whole thing.
I think, Nail, correct me if I'm wrong. Like, you thought Jake could have done an even better job?
So
This is like probably a good job. His pitch is really helpful because he includes A lot of the delta that he got from the beginning of tech stars to the end because they had a huge leaky bucket conversion problem at the beginning.
In the end. Thanks thanks to Jobs Sweet on and he talks about it in this set.
His video is really good. So when you guys watch the video, try to think what you can guess is his goal from this set.
Because it's pretty clear and he achieved it. So I'll play this video.
Jake was, Jake was not proud of his demo day performance, but he is a very tough critic.
So I enjoyed it, but I do think that there there is for improvement and just as another cautionary note just like when we heard Mark's founder story.
All of us right now as we watch this, our armchair quarterbacks. It's very easy for us to identify what's wrong and what we don't like, but what we're seeing.
And I'm telling you in the moment when it's live. It's all pretty awesome.
Because you're just kind of like you don't remember all the details. No one's going back and looking at the replay or the recording.
They're trying to like realize what little detail they can recall from those 6 min. So there's 3 main things that people will remember.
What are what are those 3 things for each of the pitches that you all will watch right now? That's what I would prompt you with.
That's a
We're an app that teaches people how to cook. Zest is so much more than a recipe.
Dest offers skills and knowledge that you can use for the rest of your life. We're doing what Headspace does for medication.
Does for personal findings. What Duolingo does for language, we teach, we test, we reinforce, so users can gain agency over the process.
And people are psyched that someone's finally stepping in to satisfy this. They're really psyched actually.
Since we launched the first version of our product 8 months ago, we've had over 130,000 account activations with $0 spent on customer acquisition.
We even asked an audience on social media of over 140,000 people and reached over 20 million people in their viral organic content.
In the last 3 months, we've refined our product, turning enthusiasm, and. We've raised our paid conversion percentage, 20 XA revenue fivex, and we're about to make an entire generation happier and healthier through the power of cooking.
Gotta give a little talk. Sorry? Oh shit, I'm early. Sorry, Jake.
I'll be right back. I'm sorry about that. See you in a minute. As you just saw during tech stars my company zest 5 XRMRR to $3.5,000 a month by selling an app that teaches people how to cook.
Because more people need to be able to make nourishing affordable and enjoyable food for themselves. Okay, our competitive advantages are ability to speak to our audience.
We know that 20 posts a week across Instagram and TikTok, we hold 1,200 organic downloads with viral upside.
Our analytical rigor at the top of the funnel has allowed us to sustain a 16% week over week growth rate throughout the course of tech stars.
We're good at speaking to people within our app too. Since August, we've been converting users to our $10 monthly subscription at a rate that's 50% higher than average for education apps.
Really culinary school. If culinary school is cheap hilarious and you can do it from your couch.
Every year, millions of twenty-somethings graduate into the real world and come to realize that a lifestyle of frozen food in Doordash will leave them feeling unhealthy.
Unfulfilled, and with a hole in their wallet. It's why 9 out of 10 of them want to improve their cooking skills.
What 50% of them are cooking more than they did last year and why I'm on this stage.
To scale something that gives this increasingly large cohort the confidence they need to change that from their very own kitchens.
Now let's talk.
What's going on? You know in all of this. The poor entrepreneurs have to go through all of this.
These guys go through this nerve racking experience and here it is the EIR that screws up the.
Anyway, sorry about that, Jake. I'm glad I didn't rob the audience of that presentation because I love the audience of that presentation because I love the discussion around zest.
I love the conversation around food. Can you tell me more about how you spent the last 3 months at Techstars?
We've made measurable impacts on our company throughout tech stars. We 3 X are session average session time, the time that the user spends in the app, we 20 X start conversion rate.
All of that is due and if there's 1 thing to know about myself but my team who I work with.
Because we've obsessed over knowing who our customer is. We've worked with industry leaders at the future of food to understand how and why people learn how to cook.
We've spent hours and hours talking to our users to find out where we succeeded them and where we fell short.
And what we came to realize was that we had a time to value issue in the app. So my team got to work, we built around that and we saw the results that we saw.
So it sounds like virality is kind of key to your customer acquisition. And as we all know, virality can be notoriously fickle.
Algorithms change, previously available methods get arbitraged away, like virality can be a really volatile metric to build a company on.
Can you help me understand why we can trust the customer acquisition as you think about morality? Yeah, so reality is not our strategy.
One of the key goals that we went into tech stars trying to achieve was to complete phase one of our brand rollout in Content Acquisition Strategy to create some predictability around our organic growth.
And we did just that. We now know that 20 posts a week across platforms with a proprietary blend of trending and unique content, will yield 1,200 organic downloads.
No, there is about our upside there. We do outperform that. But it's certainly not what we've modeled our business around.
Got it. But you're not the only one creating food content out there. Right? There are plenty of other big food influencers.
There's Joshua Weissman. There's the Golden Balance. These folks have millions of followers in a dedicated fan base.
How do you compete with them in a very crowded marketplace? We don't view them as their competition.
We view what they do as highly complementary to what zest does. They build a tremendous amount of intent in future zest users.
Somebody who is scrolling through their phone on TikTok, watching beautiful food content being made with a doordash order directly to the right of them.
On the same platform that they're looking at that content finds our organic content. Showing them how they get from the bag on the table to what they're looking at on their phone.
For us as the Golden Balance scales as Joshua Weisman scales their followings, so too does the future cohort of.
Yeah, high intensity users. I mean, okay. But these guys are also doing cooking lessons, like I hear your answer, but they're also doing cooking lessons.
They're also teaching people how to cook. So, so how do you differentiate yourself? And in particular, where a lot of their stuff is free.
And you're asking people to pay you money. How do you differentiate yourself sufficiently so that you can get people to pay you money for your content?
So free options in general. Don't effectively teach. They're fairly bulky. And entertaining, yes.
But lack any educational rigor. It's the same reason ultimately that someone would pay for Duolingo or Headspace or Mirror or Brilliant.
Org or Lucid or Peloton. 75% of people under the age of 35 consider cooking to be wellness.
9 out of 10 in that same cohort are willing to spend $300 a month on their wellness.
All that S is doing is stepping up to satisfy that existing need. Got it. So your engagement numbers seem great, right?
I heard everything that you said about how you're able to get people to engage with the platform. Fantastic.
But your MRR is pretty low comparatively. Can you help me understand how you're thinking about the business model in that world?
Yeah, so I think I guess to put it in perspective. For zest to be a 10 million dollars ARR.
We would need 83,000 paid subscribers. Right now, entirely organically without putting any money behind our message.
We have 145,000 people following us on social media. We've reached 20 million people.
Again, entirely organically.
Comparable learning apps do like I just leaned on Duolingo is a 4 billion dollar business Headspace 3 billion dollars brilliant.
Org is worth hundreds of millions, as is lucid.
All we're trying to do is take what has been effective in the way that they've taught people how to do certain tasks and apply it to food.
Now, in terms of my team's ability to execute on that, we went into tech stars with 2 specific goals.
We wanted to create predictability at the top of the funnel and we wanted to improve our product. And I'm so proud, I'm like, looking at my team right now.
I'm so proud. Of the fact that we just knocked those out of the water. And so I energized, I'm excited by the opportunities and the unknowns to come that we can solve.
But I'm thrilled at the space that we're in. Very cool. Any last thoughts for the audience?
Sure, yeah, there is. This QR code on the right side of your screens. If the idea of changing the way that people think about food energizes you, or if anything that I said Requires a follow-up if anything draws curiosity.
Book of time to chat. I love talk.
Okay, so what did everybody think? I saw lots of things in the chat. Go ahead.
Okay, I have so many thoughts. So I think that correcting somebody making a sort of articulating a misconception about your product, articulating a misconception about your product is the best way, sort of articulating a misconception about your product is the best way hands down to correct those misconceptions in people's heads.
So I love that part about it. I also think, that the conversation felt very genuine and even though it was scripted it didn't feel like it so that's incredible.
I watched some others some other recordings from the link that you put up L Lianna at some point and and they don't always feel like this.
And 3, it's split pretty clear that the strategy that he was going for was show the difference between the beginning and the end and you know show realize where those points are that that difference exists and even if that might have been retroactively what they decided to do like I don't know if they knew from the beginning of the program that they were going to focus on repeatability and you know improving the product but if that's the place where they grew the
most then you know that's what they should say. So I thought it made a lot of sense.
I completely agree. Snow?
Yeah, I really like that. They actually address. Did really critical questions that audience may have.
So I think we also need to answer some of the critical questions and yeah, I really like that.
Me too, so that is one of the things that Jake did so well in this, which is why he's always the first example I show, not because he gave the best pitch.
Like I, I think he even agrees it could have been stronger, but his Q&A really nailed it.
And I think people who wouldn't have been interested in having follow-up investor meetings with him, they would have written him off.
Oh, viral cooking app, okay, like that's not a billion dollar business. Oh, but now I'm interested because the way he answered those questions, those are the questions I had and he gave really good responses.
I want to learn more and it worked because then he went on to raise not only in Chicago but over here in the West Coast.
Noah's reference like, Jason Calcanus and, Sequoia.
So the next group or the next company is actually related because it's bloom filter, which is Eric who was in that is now the co-CEO of this company.
So in the next cohort, Eric was an ER again and he had Bloom filter and he really liked them so Andrew who is the current CEO in this video.
It's not him and brought him on to his team. So when you heard from him in the mental health workshop and he referenced boom filter that he was working on that is this company.
So he was an EIR for this at this time. But,
He has joined the company. Since and they're doing extremely, extremely well. So we're gonna watch the whole thing for this one too.
Oh, another. Disclaimer for this is that Andrew's video was weak. So he spent $0 on his video.
There's a way to spend $0 on your video and still have a good video. His video, like it was kind of last minute and we didn't have time to tell him to redo it because it was good enough, but it was just barely good enough.
So I would have wanted this to be a lot better. Yeah, Neil, do you wanna talk about it?
Well, yeah, one I really never I never liked his video. So just sitting expectations there and he knows that but doesn't matter they raised 7 million last year they're doing great.
And then also a couple weeks ago, Andrew shared the stage with me in front of all the tech stars, LPs and investors.
And we basically did something similar to what you're gonna see on stage about his business except about the overall tech stars program experience for his company.
So he has really good stage presence as a founder and I think he demonstrates himself well with his energy.
Okay, here we go.
You you
I had to do it. Accenture says, 68% of all software projects are late. Over budget or don't ship at all.
Harvard Business Review disagrees. They say that number is 78%. And I've lived this.
I was a software engineer for 17 years. And I simply could not provide my team with the information they needed to succeed.
Loom filter fixes us by reaching into the existing systems like Jira and GitHub.
Giving analytics and AI to executives. To pull the information out, pinpoint their issues.
And show them how to solve it. We've added 4 pilots and August, riding 4 more in September.
These are multi-national companies. And we're on track to add one more. Per week until mid q 1.
Next year. My name is Andrew Wolf. I'm the CEO and co-founder of Bloom Filter and we're building the software development operating system.
Software has eaten the world, let's stop it from eating our wallets.
Welcome to Bloom Filter. The Bloom filter, you can keep all of your software projects on track and on budget.
Enable your teams to understand their issues and fix them. Build confidence in your organization to ship any idea.
See how it works. We're like credit karma for your projects. You know exactly where you stand when it matters most.
We help you understand your process issues and fix them before they harm your projects. Our intuitive visualizations help you pinpoint exactly which behaviors cause comes and went.
Fool line your team's work to the outcomes it truly matter. Most people treat software as a solo activity.
It's not. Is a team sport. We focus on your process, the thing that affects everyone on your team.
Ever think about how different our world would be if innovative projects actually shift? We have. Join our mission to transform the software industry, visit Bloomfilter.
Dot com. Boom filter, your software development operating system.
Anne Drew. Hello, how are you? I'm doing well. Yeah, I see you.
Great to see you too. So, so excited to hear about what you're building and the fact that it is transformative to really help.
Improve the software development cycle. I don't know if it's just me or something's up with a shirt or what are you wearing today?
Yeah, we designed this shirt the same way most people design their software. Messy. And it's sad, but the reality of the industry is that People's processes prevent them from developing the software they want to delivering with the quality that they want to and that their customers deserve.
And so we're there to fix it. Amazing. So, it's great. So you're advocating for that and helping us fix it.
So I know you have quite a bit of a technical background in your DNA. So how has your experience and your co-founders experiences led you to build this amazing company?
Yeah, let's talk about Chris for a minute. Who's my co-founder in the front row?
I mean, there's 1 person in the world, I trust more than him, that's my wife.
He's just, we've been working together for 8 years, companies, we've built companies together, we've been in the trenches.
And he's an incredible guy. And if that was it, that'd be enough to work with him.
His leadership skills, his ability to deliver software with precision, it's impressive, it's really great.
But as you alluded to, we're both computer science graduates and Ultimately, we need other skills.
And so we're hiring a marketing person and a customer success person. We have all these great logos.
We want to take care of them. That's great. And as we think about what we saw on the on the video today.
So what some of the insights that you are providing that you think are really differentiating you in the market and what are some of the insights you can provide in the future as you think about your roadmap.
Yeah, when we think about the roadmap, I want to say that first, it's all about predictability.
Once you're predictable, you become reliable. When you're reliable, you hit your commitments.
When you hit your commitments, it goes without saying your outcomes are ideal. Right, that's our roadmap for the rest of the year.
We're going to help our teams become predictable and level up their organizations. Currently what we do is we help people see their issues. Right?
There are hundreds of issues that go wrong in software development and we built an engine that can pinpoint them via data and show you this is what's happening and this is exactly how to fix it for your team.
Can you give us like an example of, I know you have several customers currently in your system. So maybe just as they launched, what is some of the quick improvements and maybe data points?
How did predictability go up or how transparency improved there? Understanding. Yeah. One CIO comes to mind.
He gave us a call probably 4 months ago and said, hey, I need your help. My engineering team isn't delivering.
And so we installed Bloom Filter and almost immediately we saw that it wasn't the engineering team.
It was actually the product team. Their backlog wasn't well-defined. They were pulling work into sprints that weren't that weren't ready for development they We're doing things like pulling things into the sprints, putting them back in.
Caused a lot of churn. They were able to immediately identify and fix those issues. They're now delivering on their commitments.
They actually feel good about their development process and as a side benefit their teams actually respect each other and they're working with each other much better than they used to.
Great. That's a great outcome. And, you know, as we sort of think about scaling the company in sales, you mentioned sales is important as you sort of look at the customer segments.
What's been the sales cycle like and how should we think about enterprise versus commercial kind of market? Yeah.
For enterprises, we're looking for 2 to 3 months sales cycle right now. And for SMBs, it's about one month.
It's a really urgent problem for people for 2 reasons. We're right now in weird economic situation where people have laid people off and have hiring freezes.
People can hire our product to do their job that they needed people to do before. And second, people have larger budgets than they've ever had before.
People have seen 30, 40, 50, 60%. How your IT spend and higher software development spend and they need that to win.
I mean, people's jobs are on the line about this. They, companies, I mean, digital transformations are do or die kind of thing now.
Yeah, absolutely. So with that in mind, sounds like you're an inflection point and so what can we do to support your growth?
Sounds like you're an inflection point and so what can we do to support your growth and what are you looking for from the fundraising Yeah, we're in a 370 K of a 700 K preceded round that we're raising right now.
We to support our 2 amazing engineers here in the audience. And hire that marketing person, that customer support.
In terms of what we're looking for is missionaries. This is a massive problem. 2.1 trillion dollars was lost last year.
In the US alone because of poor software quality. Of that is 280 billion dollars. Of software that did not ship.
This is truly a problem. It's endemic in our society and we need to fix it. So we're looking for missionaries who want to come and join us and help fix this problem.
In particular, if you're a CIO or a CTO with a team between 25 and 100 people that use Cloud Tools, Nigel Methodology, where your people come see us in the back.
So just 1% of this multi-billion market will make you a billion dollar valuation company. That's so amazingly cliche, I can't say it.
But, great job. Thank you. Thank you so much.
Okay, one thing here that I just put in the chat is that that was a really good example of a Q&A slide behind.
It's really important for your Q&A slide, which won't be due until that first Monday before demo day.
But you can send us, versions asynchronously for feedback. It's really important that it enhances the QA and does not distract from the QA.
So when what I mean by that is like people who put a ton of data on there and like all this different stuff less is more.
You don't want them to be reading that instead of like watching your carefully crafted Q&A kind of happen before they're eyes.
Instead, it's enhancing. So like, he put the Bloom filter logo and their customer logos.
Jake put Zess and he had some customer testimonials behind him like some text messages that they put on Instagram.
And QR code to book a call with them? No, a QR code to download the app.
We didn't talk about it, but Jake's goal was to get more downloads on the app since they're B to C.
So he put the QR code there and like people could scan it but you could still listen to him.
Other people put like key pieces of traction on there. Other people just put stock images. We had a freight company.
They just put like a freight stock image as like a watermark behind it and put their logo on.
And put like their website or something like that and it doesn't even need to have a call of action because I'm gonna show you Shelley who's B to C with make it box.
She was there in your sending killer updates workshop. She just put people having fun, making her creation.
So it's like hello fresh boat for baking. So there were people like baking with their families happy.
So her Q&A side was just to elicit the certain mood or feeling that she wanted her customers to feel.
So she's like bringing you on that customer journey. So there are lots of different versions of a good Q&A side.
Any examples of
Alex, what do you do you mean perfect? I'm not sure what your question is. I think there's a
Sorry, it didn't type right, no pre product demo days. So companies that didn't have a product in the market yet.
Yep, let's see. Now, our Ocular unbuilt pre product.
Okay, cool. So yeah, I'm gonna
On Bill. Well, actually, actually, no, no, no, no, no, I'm built inocular.
We're both in market, but I'm built with doing a huge pivot.
Yeah, I have one that's pivoting. That's 1 of the reasons I chose them.
In this, video, EIR asked, what are you looking for in this fundraising event?
I think it's important to answer with Ask for Dice if you need to raise money mindset.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Chamber Chambers was pre product. I think they just got their product. A demo ready. That week, but they weren't live.
Yeah, that's true. So Ali, look up from our last demo. I'm not gonna show it today. Chamber.
It's the word chamber. Without the, they'll be in in the Oakland classroom last time.
Parto asked which elements of his demo video do you believe could be improved? So the sound for one, Merch said that.
That was terrible. I also felt like the storyline was all over the place. So like, I really like.
The like helping you guys with the product demo, think of it as a storyboard. Doesn't need to have a literal story, but every video that you make has a beginning, middle, and you're bringing people along a journey to help them comprehend.
And it felt like he was jumping around like he shows it and then he's like, imagine the world in this dystopian thing.
And it's like, what are you talking about? I, I still feel confused watching it, even though like I helped to make it and have watched it 1,000 times.
Okay. Oh yeah.
Andrew didn't know how to stand still. He couldn't stand still when he was he was pacing around on the stage.
And then he was also kind of nervous. You could sense that nervous energy. He got he softened up in the Q&A.
But at the beginning he had to get the ginters out.
Got it. Thanks.
Oh, yeah, we can probably get Chamber to come in. Like, I wouldn't say their demo, that was the best thing ever.
So like, just because they were pre product and like pulled it off.
There is one memorable aspect of the chamber pitch that I would highlight, which is Gabby commanded attention in the room.
So there was light chatter in the back because of was a huge room that had bad acoustics that had over 600 people in it.
And when Gabby got up there and started pitching, everyone shut up. In the whole space and started paying attention to it.
So I really enjoyed that moment.
That's true. If we have time, then I can show you that one. But you guys can also watch it on your own.
Yes, the comment you were using before, Leanna, was it the first video that we watched?
The one about the video that didn't have a beginning, was it the first video that we watched?
The one about the video that didn't have a beginning, middle, and end, is that right
No, that was Andrew's from Gloomfilter, the one we just watched. Yeah.
Oh, blue filter. But then also the video, I think, a Neil said, you didn't like that video.
Oh.
Can you use? The expand more and what you didn't like about that and what we should not be doing in those videos.
I actually think Jake's video is really good. Jake was not super happy with his pitch.
His video was really good and the reason it was really good is because they are like viral to talk creators.
Like that's like what they do. That's how they became popular. They had his best friend is his chief marketing officer and he is like makes millions of views with like comedy cooking stuff and that's how they get people into that.
So they're just video people and I really liked their video. His pitch and Q&A is I think what Jake is self-critical about.
I see. But it's the second one we watch that you're saying, and there's no beginning, a, a, hand, you need to tell a story.
Is, is it, is it the case that maybe, like, the way I was talking, Ali, is like the 1 min pitch is why we are doing this.
And what the solution is and and the video is more like what hide works, how the product works. But it can also be the customer journey, but we just need to tell a story, correct?
Yeah.
Well, so think think about who your who your audience is, Antonio, right? So each of you all are gonna have a different stakeholder that you're probably designing your bitch for.
Some of you are designing your pitch for an investor conversation or interaction. Some of you are trying to speak to a potential partner.
Some of you might even be trying to require customers. So whoever your stakeholder is. Oh, I'll use the investor one as an example.
Think of you on the stage in the whole point of that first minute with no background music with no video with no screen or slide behind you just you on the stage.
That 1 min is supposed to accomplish the very simple task of This person is saying something that's interesting enough for me to pay attention to them completely and I'm curious to learn more.
And I'm ready to list for 5 more minutes or or more minutes or 3 more minutes to go what they have to say.
Yeah, I would even say like if you're not talking about your customer journey in the pitch, you'd be remiss to leave it out.
Like that needs to be hit on in the pitch. You go into it even more in the video which is what critique from activated scale does which I'm about to show you but like you need to talk about the customer journey in your pitch that is everything that's how you explain your business.
What value do you bring to people? That's the whole thing. And everyone's different Antonio, so I'd be careful like for me to prescribe what you just said as correct because like you have different goals than other people.
Thank you.
And when I say story, I don't mean a literal story. I mean, that the video can't be disjointed.
Like don't just bring in random things. You're just trying to shove so much in there that it doesn't make sense.
Like you don't have to tell a literal story. Jake didn't, but it had a beginning, middle, and end.
Here's zest. Here's our attraction. Here's our call to action. Like that was it.
That was the minute.
Okay, next one.
The next one is critique. So Pratik is a b 2 b and the whole purpose of showing you his is he brought a stage presence.
So he has a very successful business. He's selling sales people to startups kind of like Jepeto, but it's not AI.
And they actually work together and critique on some stuff. And he has really good numbers. He came with the energy and he's really strong.
And his video is a great example of a customer testimonial. So he the customer and he shows how he brings value.
So we won't watch the Q&A for the next few so we can get through a couple, but let's watch his.
What's up everybody good evening welcome to the show
Hundreds of thousands of businesses are formed each year globally. So many founders create such great products, but a product without a customer, well it's just that, it's a product, it's not a business.
The one thing that they all have in common. They all need sales. Sales makes or breaks a company.
Sales is the difference between 6 and 18 months runway, especially today. But hiring sales talent, gosh, it's so expensive and inefficient.
So at activated scale, we created a marketplace where we're connecting start ups and small businesses with vetted and experienced fractional sales talent.
In just the last 12 months, our customers have won more than $800,000 in net new revenue.
I'm Fratique Martha who is the founder of activated scale and for the last 20 years I've sold for and built sales teams at startups in public companies.
Now I can keep telling you all how great this is. Or I can simply show you.
Welcome to Activated Scale, a sales talent marketplace built for startups. Meet Pray, our client, and the founder of Windsor, a seed funded startup that is ready to scale.
He came to our site and clicked. I need to win more revenue. Selling to technology buyers, typically at a mid-sized company with an average deal size of $40,000 and connected with Nathan.
In just 4 clicks, he hired a vetted and experienced fractional salesperson. Within the first month, Pray generated enough revenue and profits to pay for activated scale.
Let's hear what Prinay has to say about his experience. And within the first month of hiring him, we were not just reaching deals, we couldn't have otherwise, we were closing deals at a faster rate than we were able to before.
Activated scale has fundamentally changed the trajectory for Windsor.
Okay, so I'm gonna not show the rest of the QA, but you guys can watch it on your own. Do it.
Does anyone have quick comments about critiques before I move on to a B to C example for my BBC folks.
And I thought he was great. The one thing that I, it could have been improved and I'm really nit picking because this is the best performance I've seen so far.
But the one thing that could have been improved is if at the end of the phrases your intonation always goes down and the same way then it's clear that you've memorized it.
He needs a little bit more variety for it to sound a little more spontaneous, but amazing delivery otherwise.
That's awesome. I feel the same way. Like it's really hard to find things that were wrong.
Did you guys see how he showed the product but showed customer success. Like that's a really good example of what you could do with the product video.
Shelley right here, her video also shows customer success, but it's B to C and it's very creative.
I really like this and you guys met Shelley in the sending killer updates. She just raised I think like one or 2 She's doing great.
But this was her video.
I like it, it's so I'm
Hi everyone, I'm Shelley CEO of Bakerbox. I want to take you back to when you were a kid.
Remember what it felt like to spend time with your grandma in the kitchen? Cracking eggs into a bowl of flour and sugar.
Whisking up melted chocolate and the delicious smells of baked goods coming from the oven.
Now, when was the last time you had an experience like this? Our busy lifestyles today don't allow us to continue these experiences for the next generation. Why?
Because baking is challenging. Filtering through blogger life stories, you're wasting money buying retail sized ingredients and settling for limited options in the baking aisle and most importantly, there is no access to culturally diverse selections.
Anyone can make some dry box chocolate cake, but I bet you've never tried to make a Persian love cake.
At Bakebox, we provide a changing selection of culturally diverse baking kits that you will not find at your local grocery store.
With over $40,000 in sales to date we are creating new cultural experiences for the next generation. You can give your kids, your nieces, your nephews and your loved ones unique memories in the kitchen.
You'll be whisking together rose water and lemon and cardamom for that perfect Persian love cake with a little help from us at Baker Box.
Biggybox provides diverse baking kits from across the globe. From Mexico to India, our customers experience delicious and unique flavors right at home.
Our kids come with a detailed recipe card and pre-measured ingredients for a 0 waste experience.
Yes, please!
I'm
Oh, You show, that's how my baby wants and, I love that I got to try something new that I never would have done on my own.
I've never made a Thanks so much for joining us. We hope you enjoy your week.
Okay
So we're out of my BFC people. Did you gain a lot from that? Does that make more sense?
Cause we'd only watch B to be, but all of these things can be applied to P to C as well.
I guess James was B to C too. But, Shelley's was a great, example of showing customer success like Jake didn't even really show customer success in his.
He just focused on metrics. This is another way you could take it. All of these are valid.
Like everybody has taken it in different directions. Any points or questions here? I'm just flying through because I want to talk through a couple more examples.
Yeah, Liliana, do you find that it's too much if somebody tries to do both metrics and customer success?
Like, is there a reason they kind of went vertical with that or can you do both pretty well?
Between your pitch and your video, you should hit both. Cramming both in your video. I mean, you could, you'd probably have to do it more of how Jake did where he like he showed tweets from people, but he didn't like.
Show a bunch of video. I think there are very creative ways to incorporate all of it. You just wanna be careful not to throw so much that like it gets lost in the noise.
Like Neil said, they'll only take away 3 things from your whole set from all 3 parts like 3 major points.
So what do you want them to walk away with? I would just cost you to not. Inundate them so that, there's room for them to like remember.
Cool, great advice. Thank you.
Yeah, cool. Okay, next.
So that was awesome. Next one is from our eBay class. So. Let's see, I think it's unbuilt.
Yep. Okay, unbilled is. An example of someone who had recently pivoted. I'm talking like a week before, maybe 2 weeks before, as a result of their why before the why, which was really cool.
So they were not super into jobs to be done, but they gave it their best effort. And then they started getting all of these insights.
They are a b 2 b construction excess company like they're trying to take the excess construction materials and be a marketplace for it, which helps the earth, but also makes a profit.
And they realized their jobs to be done certain things and completely pivoted after their why before the why.
And this is what they came up with like within one to 2 weeks and it's awesome. They also had a lot of like film experience because he used to work for Netflix.
So their video is pretty cool too.
We're So right now in this room Many of us are using secondhand products. A peril like this shirt.
Electronics like this refurbished iPhone. Maybe some of this furniture. But there's another type of product that we all use.
That I can almost guarantee is not second hand. It's a 4 trillion-dollar global industry.
With an economic, social, and environmental footprint larger than those other categories combined.
I'm talking about building goods, like the lights and the flooring and the doors and windows. And all the materials that make up this space.
Now, you can buy these materials at a local salvage store or maybe online at a resale site.
But these options don't have the specialized services that the construction industry needs to really embrace secondhand at scale.
So only 1% of the materials that could be reused ever are. And that makes construction expensive and wasteful.
To put it in perspective. If you filled up a line of dump trucks with all the construction waste from US landfills alone, it would stretch around the entire planet 3 times.
Now the good news is people want to build better. And it unbuilt, that's what we're helping them do.
Here's my co-founder Sarah to tell you how.
Unbuilt is the resale marketplace for building goods. We make it easy for anyone involved in construction to resell their leftover materials instead of throwing them away.
By consolidating these products together in a single curated online store with big discounts and expert customer support, we've created the go-to destination for renovators with big dreams and modest budgets.
Since launch, we've acquired thousands of unused products from our partners and sold them to customers around the world at an average order value of over $500.
Our customers save 40 to 70% off retail and cut weeks off delivery since there's no need for manufacturing.
Unique audience and focus on high quality brands has also attracted top dealers and manufacturers who sell their excess inventory through our platform.
And I'm built, we're making building more sustainable. Beautiful and affordable for everyone.
Okay.
Okay, so that was unbuilt. This is a great example of like someone being super nervous, but it not mattering.
I'm sure not every single one of you is a very natural public speaker and Matt certainly wasn't and he was very open about that.
But he got up there, he memorized his pitch, he spoke slowly, so he was still able to be comprehended and the business spoke for itself.
And this is another good example of someone who had just pivoted. So it wasn't even that he just had this insane business.
It's just he understands his customers and you can watch that and you just know it's gonna work.
Like I want a piece of that business because that's gonna succeed. And he hits even more in the Q&A, which you can watch later.
I had another, b 2 b called Ocular to watch, but I think, since a lot of you are pre products and would like to see chamber, we can watch that one now too.
Just give me a second to pull it up because I didn't have it. Does anybody have any questions or comments from what we've seen so far while I pull it up?
I think I might have missed it but he didn't have any traction at all right because he was new because the pivot had just happened That's fabulous.
Yeah, they they had former like, orders that had gone in like they had an average order size and stuff, but it was, they didn't have like traction that was pretty, impressive at all and it a lot of it was very new.
So he just spoke from knowing the customer, which was very valid and worked. Today.
So.
Okay. Yeah. I think this is probably the first pitch. this is the first time presentation that the founder involved his co-founder because he mentioned that his profile I think she spoke and are there because I guess there's a heavy focus on one person and all of us have teams.
Have, have you seen other ways that the teams have been involved can be involved in the day.
Yeah. So that wasn't the only one, if you remember, like most of them mentioned their team in the QA in Andrew and Jake's.
So like Andrew said his covenant, he trusts more than anyone by his wife and then Jake talked about his team being like extremely viral and having all these followers.
So you definitely want to mention your team in the QA. The person on stage needs to be the CEO.
But in the video, even if they don't say it, like the person baking with Shelley, that's her co-founder.
So that person that was holding the baby, that's her COO. Every single person pretty much had their co-founders involved.
People in the TikTok's that Jake showed, that was Graham, that's his co-founder.
So your co-founder should be like all over this just because they're not literally the person on stage.
Unbilled did have his co-founder. Narrate it? Most people hired someone to narrate but Sarah really wanted to do it.
She had a great voice to do it. So that one was like a rare case. So it's up to you.
But I highly highly recommend your team being a part of it today. That was a great question. Antonio?
It's interesting how they were they were pre product but it's still the presentation felt like that customers right like they probably knew their customers so well the numbers that they showed and and then map actually with all the location.
And maybe I missed what the map really was. I it felt almost like it was that all their customers there but the presentation looked a lot like that KPIs and customers.
But.
Oh.
Yeah, they did. This one was not pre product. This one they had recently pivoted. The next one I'm gonna show you is, so this one they had customers.
Oh, okay.
Alright.
They had just, their idea completely and like made this kind of in the past 2 weeks. So they had people already buying their, construction equipment, but then they started pivoting, they kind of set in there toward like manufacturers, people started gaining interest there.
They also changed how their website is. A lot of stuff changed and they were able to make it seem like it had it because they already were selling it's the same company they pivoted completely and really understand the customer story and they had some metrics before.
Gotcha.
But they didn't have amazing metrics, right? They weren't like, we've made x $100,000, you know, they didn't say any of that, but it was still very compelling.
Okay, last but not least, so I do recommend you guys go watch Ocular OKK ULAR.
But I will show you chamber. For those who are pre product.
The
And
Would you hop on a plane with the pilot who learned how to fly just by watching a video? I know I wouldn't.
Yet, companies do this with sales, the lifeblood of their business. Sales reps are thrown into calls and demos after having just watched a few videos.
And that is why less than 25% of US sales reps actually hit their targets. Turns out selling is a lot like flying a plane.
Practice makes perfect. I'm Gabriela, co-founder of Chamber.
We use AI to help sales teams close more deals through game-based simulations. During tech stars, we identify the stronger ICP and now 4 out of 5 prospect demos convert to a next meeting.
We have exceptional companies in our pipeline, including Microsoft, Stripe, Deal, Mongodb, and many others.
Microsoft loved our product so much that they even paid us twentyk to integrate with their ecosystem.
We're a flight simulator for every sales team that will eventually automate the entire sales enablement department.
We are here to change sales for ever. And here is our first step.
David, we're already using a very similar product. Yes, but this upcoming feature will, will, oh, what did that feature do again?
Looks like David just lost another prospect. I am Sophie, his sales enablement manager. I run a team of 32 sales reps.
Last year, our company lost 18.4 8 million dollars due to rep underperformance. What could help my reps actually achieve their quotas?
Watch a video on objection handling. Clearly not. Pay 6 figures for sales consulting, not with this year's budget.
We started using chamber. Chamber uses real data from our company to create AI powered customer personas for my sales reps.
This offers them all the benefits of real-time practice, but in a gamified, risk-free environment without losing our company's valuable prospects.
My sales team is now on track to hit our targets faster than ever before. They've also increased their average deal size, not to mention that David is now our best performing sales rep.
Thank you, Chamber. All right.
Okay, I know we have only 2 min left. Now, did you wanna comment on Chambers performance?
Like, I feel like their video could have definitely been better, but they really did just like pull that out at the last minute because they had been pivoting, they were pre product, they were really big on jobs to be done.
They did it all the way until about week 10 and then that's what they came up with. And their whole idea was to get interest and customers that would be in their pipeline for when they were ready to launch and that happened.
Yeah, I'll let Alex speak to you all at some point and he can elaborate more on you know, their Microsoft integration and how they were able to, you know, kind of pull off that prototype pilot.
But what was the other question.
Oh, just what you thought. Like, I don't think that was a perfect example, but Gabby did a great job commanding the room.
Oh yeah, oh she she committed the room she had confidence she clearly timed it out like even if you don't remember what she said you remember her confidence and now she delivered it and it was one of the more stand-out pitches for the day.
And it's important that when you're excited, you're not speaking quickly though, cause nerves like that happens to me all the time.
You speak so fast, people can't understand you. That was a good example that Gabby still didn't speak fast.
She was just excited. So we have 1 min left. I'll stay on for questions afterward, but this is just to get you guys thinking.
So you don't have an action item here. I'll actually tell you when you meet with Troy in 2 weeks that it's time to start thinking about your pitch.
For now, just have this in your head. Now you have your North Star. You know what we're going toward.
All your questions hopefully have been answered and you can start iterating your business to gain the growth that you'd like to present.
I hope a lot of you can feel better and like sleep better knowing what is going on and not being so nervous for demo day because it's truly just one day.
It's 1 day and the next day you'll wake up and you're gonna still be running your business.
So I'll stand